NAS is a well-developed storage type that has been around for some time now, being beneficial for the home tech enthusiast and small-scale businesses. NASs or Network Attached Storage are centralized servers that allow for multiple people (if desired) to store and transfer files at will over a network that are not on their computers. This is great for media streaming or data storage with many other possibilities including hosting VMs, web hosting and testing, and data protection through extra firewall layers and information backups. NASs can also be a cost effective way to store easily accessible data for all users in a network, with good scalability and plenty of security options available. Modern Cloud services are now able to be linked in a hybrid approach, allowing for better data backup in case anything goes wrong with the NAS onsite.

NAS are usually just a small server box that contains multiple HDDs or SSDs with a motherboard/NIC, CPU, RAM, and an OS that can host the server (Debian Linux is great for this purpose). This self-contained server is usually connected to the network via Ethernet for faster transfer speed but if it supports 802.11 then it can be hosted over Wi-Fi as well. 

It is important to understand that NAS can be used at all levels of networks, from consumer and small businesses up to large scale enterprises, but the approach and equipment used will be different at these larger scales with some equipment having close to 700 TB of storage and 512GB or RAM per Node, with cluster capacities scaling much higher.
